("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- [Birk] Come on, it's time
to get you out of here.
- [Narrator] Ronja almost
froze to death whilst stuck
in the snow.
She was lucky to
be rescued by Birk.
Together, they made a promise
to become brother and sister.
But the morning
after her ordeal,
she could barely get up.
Never before had Ronja been ill.
(soft violins and flute)
(fireplace crackling)
(exhales)
(moans softly)
- Ronja, you're never ill.
(sighs)
What's wrong with you, Ronja?
Talk to me!
(gasps)
She's burning up.
Tell me, what should I do?
(weeping)
(chuckles)
(screams loudly)
(crowd gasp)
From the very first moment
I held her in my arms,
I knew that one day
this would happen.
(crowd gasps)
My daughter, my child,
she's going to die.
Not now!
(screams loudly)
- [Noddle Pete] Here we go.
(crowd shouting)
- Stop it, Mattis!
- Calm down, you're
going to frighten Ronja!
- Huh?
- Eh?
(upbeat acoustic guitar)
(flute music)
- When you're not very well
it's important to keep warm
and take care.
And you are very ill,
my little flower.
- No, I'm not, don't
be silly, Mattis.
It's nothing, I'll get better.
After all,
it could have been
much, much worse.
(pants heavily)
- Ronja!
(sobs)
(acoustic band music)
(gasps)
My Ronja, my little dove.
She weeps because she
is to part from us
at such a tender young age!
Don't cry, good girl.
Just try to think
about tomorrow.
(crowd weeps)
- Nobody cries for me,
and I get far more ill.
(jovial band music)
- Lovis!
Lovis!
(heavy panting)
(sheep whining)
(grunts and sobs)
With our beautiful daughter's
life hanging by a thread,
it's Lovis's duty as a
mother to be with her!
(whines loudly)
(sheep whining)
Why aren't you with
your sick daughter?
Huh?
- My daughter is sick?
First I've heard of it.
As soon as I've fed the sheep.
- I'll feed the sheep!
You go to her!
If it's not too late
and she's still alive!
(sobs)
- Hmm.
(door creaks)
- Ronja, don't go
dying on me yet,
not before you've seen your
mother's face one last time.
(sheep bleating)
(fire crackles)
(Ronja moans)
(gasps softly)
- Hmm?
(soft moan)
(soft music)
- [Narrator] Ronja spent
three whole days in bed.
Three whole days and nights.
It gave her plenty of time to
think, and not surprisingly,
she became a much more
thoughtful person.
(moans softly)
- Birk, brother mine.
- [Mattis] Ronja!
(gasps)
My little dove,
here's some porridge.
- Oh, I've never lied
to Mattis before,
but I could never tell
him that Borka's son
is my brother now, no.
If I ever I told him
that, it would be like,
hitting him over the
head with a sledgehammer,
only much worse.
(soft music)
(gasps)
I must keep it secret.
Otherwise Mattis would be even
more heartbroken and upset.
He'd tear the fort down.
(soft keyboard)
But why does Mattis
have to be like that?
He's so angry.
No matter whether
he's happy or sad,
it's always the same.
He's full of rage.
And so much fury, it's
enough for our whole clan!
(snoring)
(mouth smacks)
(soft serene music)
I want to see Birk.
I want to be with
my new brother.
Even if it means I have
to steal away to do it.
(soft serene music)
(wind blowing)
- Ronja!
You're alive!
Seeing you this well again,
I couldn't be happier.
Ronja, are you sure
you're all right?
- Oh, nothing wrong with me.
I feel very well.
- Great!
(laughs hysterically)
(loud wind blowing)
- With all this snow
covering everything,
I'll never get
away to the forest.
And I've had just about
enough of them for a while.
(sighs)
So this is how it feels when
I'm not able to see him.
It's as if there were a
thousand miles between us.
Because of snow!
(angry grunting)
(whimsical music)
(men grunting)
- Sturkas and I fetched
the water yesterday!
- Which means it's
someone else's turn
today!
- Ow!
- No, it's not!
I think you suggested
drawing straws for it anyway,
and you lost!
That was the point of drawing
straws in the first place!
- We've been the last
two days in a row
and it's not our turn again!
Lill-Klippen, aren't you
forgetting a little something
called human kindness?
- I'm against drawing straws!
Any of you gone to collect
the water twenty times
this winter, huh?
Thought so!
If I go any more,
I'll freeze to death!
- Who cares?!
If you draw the short
straw, then it's your turn!
- Okay then, let's
settle this with a fight!
- You're in trouble.
- I'm ready!
(grunting and shouting)
- Breakfast is barely over,
already you're behaving
like naughty children!
You're all as idle as
a herd of fat oxen.
If you're not out robbing,
you better make yourselves
useful around here!
(moaning)
Fjosok, Sturkas!
If you won't fetch water,
you can shovel snow.
(gasping for air)
Start by clearing every single
roof and pathway in the fort.
Klippen and Tjorm, you take
the hay into the stables.
Knotas, bring some
firewood to the kitchen.
Pelje, go and
check on the goats.
See if the small
one is eating again.
Hmm.
Huh.
(strong wind blows)
(loud shoveling)
- [Sturkas] I'm never
drawing straws again!
(fire crackling)
- Ronja, it's your turn again.
- Huh?
- Hmm.
(mumbles)
Looks like I lose again.
And it appears that you have
a real talent for gambling,
young lady!
(chuckles)
Hey?
I know, how about we play a
little Murktrolls' Nose next?
(chuckles)
(sighs)
But first, perhaps I should
go and relieve myself.
Being old means I have to go
as often as a Harpy shrieks.
Did I say that out loud?
No, hang on, I've gotta go.
Oh, I've really gotta go, oooh!
- There's only so much
dice you can play.
(soft footsteps)
(strong wind blowing)
If I can't go over it,
maybe I can go under.
(gasps)
Hmm!
(strong wind blows)
(soft footsteps)
(wind blows in the background)
(door creaks)
(gasps loudly)
(jazzy music)
- Noddle-Pete told me this is
where they kept prisoners in
the olden days, down
here in the dark.
Never seeing daylight.
Locked up until they died.
(shivers)
(jazzy music)
- These dungeons are
under Hell's Gap.
On the stormy night
when you were born,
the whole place
was split in two,
with rocks and rubble
covering this whole area.
And so the entire
passageway was cut in half.
And this is as far
as you can safely go.
- As far as you can safely go.
(jazzy music)
But on the other side, the
passage way, it must carry on.
I will get to the other side.
All this rock and
rubble can't stop me.
Birk's there, and
I will get to him.
(loud shoveling)
- Anyone?
Anyone seen Ronja recently?
I wonder what she's
been doing with herself.
- That child is impulsive and
comes and goes as she likes.
- I bet she's shoveling snow
with the rest (chuckles).
- Hmm.
(inspirational music)
(grunting)
(whimsical horn)
(pants softly)
(light flutes)
- If I see Birk again,
we'll be able to talk.
And then I will find out
if he really is my brother
as he promised in the snowstorm,
when he called me his sister.
(jovial music)
(breathing and grunting)
(crowd laughing and chatting)
(beating drums)
(crowd laughing and shouting)
- From now on,
so long as I'm alive,
never again am I going
to move any stones,
big or small.
(light orchestral)
(stones rustling)
(light grunting)
(grunting)
Ah!
Come on, why won't you move!
Oh Birk, it seemed
like such a good idea!
(light orchestral)
(rocks pouring)
- [Narrator] Day
after day, bit by bit,
Ronja continued to
haul the rocks away.
And then...
(soft wind blow)
(distant rustling)
(distant footsteps)
Finally a breakthrough, but
Ronja knew that she was on
dangerous ground.
All the same, she couldn't
stop herself from wanting
to reach Birk.
She longed to see the
boy she called Brother.
(banjo music)
Next time on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter.
(banjo music)
"The Whistler Underground".
Don't miss it.
(lighthearted music)